Trick or Treat - Tech Report

The game I chose to create is called "Trick or Treat." The setting is simply your average
suburban cul-de-sac and the protagonist is a run of the mill high school baseball player. You
adventure through your town with your best friend trying to collect candy which adds to your
score.

I accomplished a lot technically while implementing this game. Initially I set up the health
and combat system allowing for all persons to have health and take damage. I set up damage
and heal functions that took numbers so I could heal or damage a character at any time.
Implementing candy for score was a big challenge because of dealing with numbers. There is a
single piece of candy in the player inventory that prints the total number that they player has and
all the actions relating to taking, dropping, and eating candy have been overriden to simply work
with the number variable attached to that single piece of candy.

Creating the system for all the characters that follow the player was difficult because
they had to follow the player each move. I created a following relationship and after every "go"
move the player makes, I make the following characters follow them. If the character is
continuously following the player and it is not the best friend character, Jeffery, then the
character will attempt to damage the player. This is where the enemies come into play and they
follow you, which I think is pretty cool. The only way to completely avoid them is to run, which is
a new action I implemented, but you will probably run into them again. Running puts the player
and all of their followers in random locations in the street region to make the game less
predictable.

I added the trick or treat option which has a lot of synonyms like "knock" specified so it's
easy for the player to find. This is the action the player must perform at every house to complete
the game. This action will trigger another function for each house which begins a puzzle or
starts a more complex chain of events. This makes the child cop chase you, the Barbara prank
begin, and it the outcomes are different if you have a costume on and if you don't have Jeffery
with you.

I am also proud of how I overrode most of the ask and tell actions to work with my talk
action so you can talk to Jeffery. Jeffery can help the player at every point in the game and has
a hint for every different puzzle, which is a pretty large set of if's in the "code."

Another weird thing I did is I used a lot of undescribed items. This allowed me to put their
descriptions in the room descriptions and have them be removed with if's in the descriptions. I
did this to allow the items to blend in with the rooms descriptions and stick out less.

The puzzles aren't particularly hard, but I'm very proud of how cohesive my story is. I
tried really hard to capture the different events and experiences that a kid can have while trick or
treating and I think I did pretty well.